---
title: Morels are a good first mushroom
author: Celine
layout: multipage
order: celine
chapter: '002'
links:
  - text: Next
    to: '/pieces/celine/003'
season: spring
---

It's soft and dark outside; traffic sounds are heavy, muted, slow. Your screen is a blazing window , pushing shadows into the corners of your room. You read the discussion.
The first post in the thread is very diaristic: someone in their thirties—I'm just another unremarkable urban dweller, they write—sick of screens, sick of feeling a sense of distance and unreality in the natural world. Some parts feel intimately relatable, some less so. You linger on one particular sentence: I keep on reading advice to eat local, eat seasonal, and I realized: I know nothing about the world around me, and I don't really know how it changes.

You are expecting the replies to contain all the usual advice: Go on walks more often, Spend time in nature. Which you do find, but accompanied by an unusual, strategic intensity.

>**bring_a_ruler** This is normal IMO especially if you grew up in a suburban or urban area. I wouldn't stress about it too much. Just start going outside and bring a cutting tool with you. Start by learning one plant in your area and go from there.

>**myco_mouse** I felt this way ten years ago. It's even harder to feel integrated in nature now if you don't try. Have you looked around the forum to get advice for your region? The first outing can feel scary but there's lots of advice out there on where to start and what's safe to eat!
You scroll up to the top of the page and look at the (frankly dorky) forum logo and its tagline: If we're not here, we're in nature. It is a foraging forum, you realize. Everyone else on the internet jokes about logging off; you wonder if these people actually do.

Reading the forum becomes your primary form of pleasant, unobtrusive voyeurism. Life is a little boring right now. Your friends are all sick of others ghosting them on the apps (the dating ones) or making them self-conscious and slightly irritable all the time (the other apps, but perhaps also the dating apps too). So there are no new personalities in your offline life. The forum provides them.
And it's nice to learn something new. Where you can forage for mushrooms in the U.S. and Europe, which is where most of the forum's users are from. The legal basis for foraging, on rural or urban land, on public or private property. On a slow Wednesday, you retreat to a secluded corner to a long thread titled When is it okay to take fruit from someone else's tree? Engrossed in the intricate, internecine conflict that emerges on page 8, you appear diligent and focused. A coworker comes in, starts to say your name, then discreetly retreats.

The forum makes foraging seem pleasant and easy. And maybe something that sends you off the deep end: you read a 12 page discussion about the best sweat-wicking pants to wear while foraging (Can you fit a pair of clippers into the pocket?, someone asks, and then there are 3 pages mostly devoted to the merits of carrying tools in a pocket or a bag—a debate so banal it becomes fascinating).
But mostly people are gentle, enthusiastic, relatable. Just like you, but with an incredible memory for botanical plant names.
