---
title: Morels are a good first mushroom
chapter: '004a'
author: Celine
layout: multipage
links:
  - text: Go forage for morels → (005a)
    to: '/pieces/celine/005a'
---
```
---
season: spring
post-count: 1
rank: Newbie
---
```
You decide to make an account, since you've been reading this forum a few times a week now. Picking a username is tricky—so is picking a profile image. You spend a few minutes deliberating, hesitating.

And after the username there's a field to choose your gender (you're allowed to leave it empty, which you do). Then you fill out the Location field in your profile (with appropriately but not unhelpful vagueness, you hope) and write your first post.

>**natureisnotametaphor** I want to try foraging for mushrooms. I know basically nothing…what should I look for?

You feel a bit nervous as soon as you hit Post. But ten minutes later, you get your first response:

>**myco_mouse** Hello and welcome! I'd look into morels, especially Morchella rufobrunnea. They're relatively easy to distinguish and my personal favorite :) Good luck!

And at the end of the day, a few more responses have come in:

>**ecotope** Also, do not eat them raw. From personal experience…I now sauté them in butter for 5 or 10 minutes.

>**bringaruler** Morels were my first mushroom too! Like mouse said, pretty easy. FYI since you're a newbie: if you're not sure what something is, do not gather it. Take a photo and ask for an ID later, don't disturb the environment if you don't need to.

The responses are encouraging. You start developing out a nice daydream about your future foraging self, competent and careful.
